{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9860\viewh14420\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 butter cream chicken con patatas ricas\
\
i don\'92t have a blender (or other effective mechanism) in my flat to make a compote butter, so i\'92ve had to look for reasonable substitutes. a strategy i\'92ve discovered that works pretty well is melting butter in a pan, adding the necessary ingredients to \'91compote\'92 the butter, then putting it in a jar overnight to solidify. i must say, it works decently well! the only caveat is that it requires some planning as you need enough time to let the butter solidify prior to use.\
\
with regards to this recipe, i really like how all aspects blend together at the end in cooking the potatoes in the chicken drippings. hell, keep the bones and make a broth\'85fuck round wit it and waste not - all parts of the chicken are good parts of the chicken.\
\
ingredients:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}chicken (spatchcocked (of course))\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}new potatoes\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}lemon juice\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}flour\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}olive oil\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}3 clove of garlic\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 for the butter/sauce:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}100 g unsalted butter\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}2 shallots\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}2 garlic clove\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}3 anchovy in olive oil\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}1/2 tsp curry powder (medium)\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}1/4 tsp cayenne pepper\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}1 tbsp mustard powder\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}1 tbsp capers\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}~0.25-0.5 cups of of herbs (parsely, thyme, tarragon, chives or anything else)\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}100 ml single or whipping cream\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}2 tsp lemon juice\
\pard\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
steps:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\tx6785\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}to make the butter, combine the first 7 ingredients into a sauce pan on medium heat. as the butter melts, stir everything together until the anchovies (and oil) are fully desolved and the shallots have softened. once here, add the capers, herbs, salt + pepper and cook for another few minutes. set the pan aside (allowing it to cool) before adding the creme. if you do not set the pan aside to cool, the cream will curdle and you will be sad. after adding the cream, add the lemon juice as well, and put the butter-y/sauce mixture in a glass jar. refrigerate overnight [1].\
{\listtext	2.	}once the butter has solidified, the rest of the process should be fairly quick. preheat the oven to 200C, boil a pot of generously salted water and add the baby new potatoes in the boiling water for 15 minutes. meanwhile, place the chicken on a parchment lined tray and, using your index finger/middle finger, separate the skin away from the flesh on the breast. do this for both breasts and thighs. once separated, take the cold butter compote and stuff it between the skin. try to distribute evenly by pressing on the skin/moving the butter around underneath. you can add any remaining butter to the outside of the chicken and sprinkle with salt and pepper. place this in the oven, setting a timer for 25 minutes.\
{\listtext	3.	}hopefully your potatoes are done by now. strain the water from the potatoes, halve them, and add into a large bowl. once in the bowl, add the lemon juice, olive oil, crushed garlic salt and pepper. after coating, sprinkle the potatoes with flour and continue tossing until small bits of the flour consolidate on the halved potatoes.\
{\listtext	4.	}once the 25 minutes are up on the chicken, baste (or spoon dripping over), add the potatoes around the chicken, and return to the oven. baste again after 10, and shake the potatoes around. wait for another 5-10 minutes then pull out the chicken. if the potatoes look delicious, then they\'92re ready, otherwise, let them cook for another 10 [2].\
{\listtext	5.	}carve the chicken, serve on a platter with the potatoes - or in whatever presentation your heart desires.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
[1] this sauce is awesome to use for other things as well like pasta or over a steak\
[2] maybe even salt \'91em up a bit (?)\
\
}